add blog for 2024-04-26 (#19)
pelican-dev/docs: blog/2024-04-26-license-questions.mdx

---

> slug: license-questions
> title: License Questions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: commercial-license-faq
title: Commercial License FAQ
```

Something like this

> authors: [parker]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authors: [parker, lance]
```

tags: [panel, license]
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

> As some of you know, people have been asking us questions about when you need a license or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As some of you know, people have been asking us questions about when you need a commercial license or not.
```

> I asked for people to get me questions they wanted clarifications on and here are some answers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I asked people for questions they wanted clarifications on, and here are some answers. 
```

## modification questions

> 1.  Q: What are the plans for the theming part of Pelican Panel and what will the front end look like?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Q: What are the plans for the theming Pelican Panel and what will it look like?
```

I want to stay away from "front end" because it is ambiguous. For example, I use it to refer to everything that is not /admin (/panel). But some people refer to React.js as the front end and some refer to all HTML/CSS as the front end.

Author: This is the question as asked. I am not editing other peoples words.

    A: Using [Filament themes](https://filamentphp.com/docs/3.x/panels/themes#creating-a-custom-theme) placed in `/resources/css/filament` will work and don't need a license, 
    and so long as no files that are included with the panel are modified in the process, you do not need a commercial license.

:::info

>     A theme selector will eventually be implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A native theme selector is currently planned.
```

:::
:::warning

>     Themes are unable to change the layout of the panel, but plugins can.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Themes are unable to heavily change the layout of the panel because they are limited to CSS. However plugins can completely and more easily rearrange components and add new ones and pages.
```

:::
:::info definitions
    Theme: The color and style of the panel. (Ex. button colors or fonts)  
    Layout: The way the panel is organized. (Ex. where the cpu usage shows up.)

>     Panel Code: The files that the panel ship with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Panel Code: The files that belong to the pelican-dev/panel repository
```

:::

2.  Q: Will only styling be a thing, or is there also some sort of support for custom layouts and functionalities?

    A: Custom layouts can be made with either plugins or by writing a custom frontend that uses the API to interact with the panel.

> 3.  Q: Some users will probably use "public" themes for the panel (maybe smth like unix or so), if they are a public host, since they aren't the ones making the theme, do they need to pay the commercial license?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  Q: Some users will probably use "public" themes for the panel (maybe something like unix or so), if they are a public host, since they aren't the ones making the theme, do they need to pay the commercial license?
```

Author: This is the question as asked. I am not editing other peoples words.

>     A: The answer for question 1 should answer this, but if a theme is public (as in open source) and does not modify the panel code if should be fine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A: The answer for question 1 should answer this, but if a theme is open sourced OR does not modify the Panel's file it is fine.
```

:::warning

>     If it is closed source and modifies the panel code the host would have to get a license.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If your Pelican Panel modifications are not open sourced, you are required to obtain a commercial license.
```

:::

## not license related
    Still good questions

1.  Q: What kind of SLA are you guys proposing for any commercial support plans?

>     A: Currently this depends on what level of support a customer would want. We are discussing options internally right now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A: Please contact us at team@pelican.dev. Currently this depends on what level of support a customer would want. We are discussing options internally right now.
```

Author: This should be added to the end and not the beginning if anything.

2.  Q: Would it be possible for you guys to add a real data panel like splint or grafana or netdata for the server metrics?

    A: Currently exporting server metrics to a service like Grafana is not planned but may be considered.
:::info
    As discussed on the discord server this may be better served by a monitoring service such as a host level netdata install.
:::

3.  Q: When Pelican goes public, will conversions be considered?

    A: You can use your existing Pterodactyl configuration and drop in Pelican, it will update the database when installed.  
:::warning

>     This would not be reversible at this time and it is heavily recommended that you back up your current configuration if you ever want to go back to Pterodactyl.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    We do not support reverting back to Pterodactyl. It isn't challenging, but we strongly recommend that you backup your files and database in case you want to.
```
